world
the American Midwest and east coast were
colder than Swanson antarctica today
as the record-breaking freeze even
spread to the deep sound good evening
i'm judy woodruff
1i Feliz away also ahead the country's
biggest bank is slapped with another
record fine
this time for what JP Morgan didn't do
when it learned a Bernie Madoff's Ponzi
scheme plus the head of the UN's World
Food Programme
the group on the front lines of the
fight against hunger
in areas crippled by violence in the
central african republic
their hundred thousand people in and
around the airport itself
in Bangla when we began a feeding
program in that area
are mentor workers were tapped those are
just some other stories we're covering
tonight
PBS Newshour bitter cold persisted and
spread across much of the country today
conditions were better suited to paying
ones then people
and gave new meaning to the term blue
states I'm wearing long underwear
I feel like I'm going skiing but I'm not
going to work millions of Americans
spend another long day in the
icy grip of the polar vortex from
washington DC where reading started the
day
in the single digits as soon as I get
for make sure
to most to the midwest and the northeast
and New England
1a below 30 below forty below occurs
when you get that much probably doesn't
make a lot of different model up in
layers
well we have one uses a woman using a
towel as a scarf
I I'm using my wife's gas
because I couldn't find mine so lines
while wearing a pink sky
and the deep south joined the misery as
Frigidaire pushed all the way into the
region this is
ice on the road in atlanta and snow
in rural North Georgia and is completely
frozen fountain is in Greensboro North
Carolina
farther south vegetable and citrus crops
in Florida
are at risk farmers work today to
protect fields are potatoes and cabbage
from the following Mercury depends on
how cold it gets and how deep it freezes
it could affect the top layer potatoes
the cabbage crop actually low 20's it
can be affected also say can burn a top
leave
even places accustomed to cold winters
had a shock
Chicago hit a record low for Monday's
date
at -16 degrees not counting the
windchill
this is what it look like when a man
opened his window
and let freezing winds poor inside in
indiana about 30,000 people lost power
overnight
and with it their heat they turned to
generators blankets or shelters to stay
warm
many schools in the midwest stayed close
for a second day today
Michigan Governor Rick Snyder this isn't
the data have the kids go out and build
a snowman
or an igloo on the conditions are such
where it's not safe to be out this
called for very long
black I E send slick patches on the
roads were another danger with the
number of spin outs in rollovers growing
by the hour
and more than 500 amtrak passengers got
off trains Daves spent the night on
in climbed into buses to their
destination Chicago
blowing drifting snow had them stuck on
the tracks in central
Illinois since yesterday afternoon that
we did have power.
we did have blankets ritually happy
about that
but one part of the country escape the
Deep Freeze
sunny Southern California temperatures
in the seventies
the fact that it is the beginning in
January and I eating
a covered by ice cream cost them
starting tomorrow those still suffering
to the cold
can expect somewhat warmer weather at
least
near or above freezing we've heard the
term polar vortex quite a bit during
this deep reason
here to help us understand the science
behind it I'm joined by Andrew Friedman
he senior science writer
at Climate Central News & Research
organization Andrew Friedman thank you
for being with us so tell us what is the
polar vortex
so the polar vortex actually is is not
really a new
meteorological phenomenon its armed just
the national attention has been focused
on it and the past couple days it's
you can think of it as this mass love
very cold air
that usually resides near the North Pole
the user's eyes in the Arctic
and is surrounded by very fast
upper-level winds
and so so it usually sits there
but what happened what caused it to move
yes that's especially interesting so
usually these fast-moving upper-level
winds Canada trap that are out there and
keep it up there
and that's relatively good for people
down
in the continental US cuz it spares us
from some the brutal called
but occasionally what can happen is
those wins weekend
and it's sort of Lake when you have a
spinning top
when it's spinning very quickly it's
pretty stable
when it starts to slow down it meanders
and wobbles and what we had was
a while ball in the polaroid tax
that kinda pinged of this this large
chunk of it
and slid it South with the a dove other
weather systems and the jet stream that
were more familiar with
so at the risk of getting are really in
the weeds here what caused it to slow
down to
to start this wobble well I
someone that is dynamics that are going
on in the very high atmosphere in the
stratosphere
I'm there's often waves that can I go
through the atmosphere from
low to high and from high to low and I
can help
I cause some in these wobbles I'm
there's also you know
areas of high pressure I'm call blocking
eyes that sorted acts Lake
stop signs in the atmosphere preventing
storms from kinda
going through them and we had a a series
have blocking hines
over the past week or so over the North
Pacific especially
they kinda rerouted the traffic in the
atmosphere
so it and is that what caused it to come
so far south
this time yeah that that's that's pretty
much an explanation above why
the polar vortex why such a big chunk of
it came this far south but
given mind you know we haven't seen
anything like this in a in a long time
in twenty to thirty years
a lot other the records are being broken
from those periods
but we have seen this before this is not
an all-time cold
events that we've had many many worse
outbreaks
any any way to predict how
how often we're going to see it happen
in the future when we're gonna see the
next one come
well we can predict it in advance in
terms have
a weaker to perhaps but a you know what
we are certain games he it is that we're
going to continue to have called
outbreaks throughout the winter
I'm but long-term climate change
means that a lot of the cold outbreaks
that we experience may not be quite as
cold as they used to be
we're seeing more less frequent I
extremely cold temperatures in many cold
places Minneapolis has had much
fewer days although about -10 degrees
Fahrenheit
fewer nighttime lows that allow in their
past decade versus the 1970s for example
so you know the the long-term trend is
up but we've got these
natural variations i in weather patterns
that we try to keep close track a
and it sure does catch everybody's
attention Andrew Friedman have
climates and for we thank you thank you
JP Morgan Chase agreed today to pay more
than two and a half billion dollars
to several criminal charges in the
Bernie Madoff fraud
federal authorities charged the bank
ignored warning signs
that made of was running a huge Ponzi
scheme will get full details right after
the news summary:
on wall street today stocks finally had
the first
up day of the new year the Dow Jones
Industrial Average gained more than a
hundred and five points
to close at almost 16,000 531
the Nasdaq rose 39 points to close it
a bill to restore long-term unemployment
benefits
took its first step forward in the
Senate today half a dozen Republicans
join Democrats
to begin formal debate republicans also
call for spending cuts to pay for the
bill
will have a full report on today's
action later in the program
in Iraq the government claimed it struck
a key blow et al Qaeda militants holding
two cities
the military said this video showed an
airstrike on an operation center
just outside Ramadi it said 25 fighters
died in the attack
militancy is Ramadi and Fallujah last
week
when government troops pull back today
suny lawmakers warn
that the shiite-led government should
keep out ish
about the and yeah and it was the iraqi
troops were pulled out a
and bar because they were defeated they
face tribes and so many armed men
the troops participation in civilian
issues which are in fact the
responsibilities of local police
has created chaos in Anbar and the
situation is out of control
the Obama administration has pledged to
help the iraqi government by providing
surveillance drones
the first chemical weapons materials
have left Syria
the UN announced today that poison gas
ingredients
were loaded aboard a Danish ship the
vessel took on the cargo in the port of
Latakia
then put to sea until the next shipment
arrives
eventually the chemicals will be
destroyed when a US
navy ship a corruption scandal in turkey
took a new turn
overnight as Prime Minister ray gypped I
refer to one
dismissed or reassigned 350 police
officers
it was his latest effort to contain an
investigation
he says is politically motivated a
corruption probe has grown steadily
to include cabinet ministers and
businessman close to the government
the los angeles county sheriff announced
today
he'll retire from running the nation's
largest county jail system
in the face of a scandal last month 18
current and former deputy
were indicted on charges ranging from
beating
inmates to obstructing investigators
today Sheriff Lee Baca
said he decided not to seek a fifth term
to prevent further damage to his
department
the reasons for doing so are so many
summer most personal and private
but the prevailing one is a negative
perception
this upcoming campaign has brought
to the exemplary service provided by the
men and women
at the sheriff's department baca is 71
years old he said he will step down at
the end of the month
more than a hundred former New York City
police officers firefighters in prison
guard
were charged today with faking mental
problems
to get federal disability benefits some
falsely said they suffered ailments
after 9/11
prosecutors say four ringleaders coach
officers
on how to describe symptoms of
depression and other problems
they receive payouts as high as 500,000
dollars
and ringleaders allegedly got kickbacks
in Chicago a ban on handgun sales is now
in limbo
a federal judge ruled Monday that
ordinances barring such sales
are unconstitutional but he agreed to
delay his ruling from taking effect
can give the city time to appeal last
year Chicago led all
other American cities in homicides
still to come on the news hour another
record fine for JP Morgan
a bill to extend unemployment benefits
clears a key vote
what to expect from Janet Yellen Federal
Reserve
an inside look at a terrorist training
camp plus the challenger fighting hunger
in the world crisis zones
we return to the JP Morgan story in the
historic penalty it will pay
but the banks connection with the maid
of Ponzi scheme
settlement and find more announced five
years after Bri made of scheme collapsed
around him
and investors worldwide jeffrey Brown
picks up the details
about those connections at the time that
nato's crimes were unveiled JP Morgan's
name was not publicly connected with the
case in a significant way
but federal prosecutors said today the
bank knew something was wrong
well before the Ponzi scheme collapsed
US Attorney Preet Bharara
spelled out some of that history at a
press conference this afternoon
today's charges have been filed because
in this regard
JP Morgan as an institution failed
and failed miserably in part because of
that failure
for decades Bernie Madoff was able to
launder
billions of dollars in Ponzi proceeds
essentially
to a single set up accounts JP Morgan
far back as 1998 a bank fund manager
concluded that made us returns were
were quote possibly too good to be true
close for that there were too many red
flags
Patricia Hurtado has been covering this
poor Bloomberg News & was at the
prosecutor's press conference today she
joins me now
well positioned thanks for joining us
such fill in the picture a little bit
what exactly
is JP Morgan admitting that it did well
they're basically accused of being the
private banker for Bernard Madoff
enabling his Ponzi scheme to continue
nearly but the mere fact that
even though they were concerned and a
are got their own personal investments
out it may often they thought they were
suspicious something was wrong
they allowed other people to continue to
be victimized so we heard this
phrase just now too good to be true
they're there that that's how it looked
at least at the time but
the problem is nobody said anything yet
the government basically alleges that
for years dating back to 1986
are made of had an account at JP Morgan
Chase
and its predecessor entities and allowed
hundreds
billions of dollars to go through and
allowed very unusual suspicious
transactions to go through and yet the
bank never raise any red flags
never raise any concerns and but the
that the bank was savvy enough to get
its own money out when it became
concerned
just before the fraud was uncovered in
December 2008
now no individuals are cited I see to
the company said
if I write the company still says it
doesn't believe employees
knowingly assisted made of scheme yes
basically the US Attorney's Office
conceded today that they're not charging
an individual that this is an
institutional failure
many many people this is a big huge bank
are different and different parts to the
bank didn't communicate well with each
other and didn't share their concerns
are sorta
isolated or fragment eight their
concerns are fragmented
so not one individual was aware the
Ponzi scheme
and allowed it to continue Joe Patricia
give us some examples of the
kinda red flags that were ignored well
the government
as Sky a very unusual statement of facts
basically it's an admission
of responsibility I i'm at Cobo if you
well
up what the bank employees were talking
insane to each other privately about
made of which are kinda incriminating
for example there is one point in June
where one employee speculated that quote
made of and his returns are speculated
to be part a Ponzi scheme
and in December 98 one of the at JP
Morgan fund manager said
that his returns are quote possibly too
good to be true
and that they were quote too many red
flags and clout
on and that in the last most significant
thing
was in four months before pop I'm made
of play
I basically admits he's conducted a
Ponzi scheme that's gone on for decades
in December 2008 JP Morgan in October
2008 was really concerned
and redeemed $275 million dollars have
its own money
off from its investing with Madoff and
at one point
wanna that traders said in October's 16
weeks before Madoff's fraud was
uncovered in December
there are many elements in this story
that could make s nervous
and later when may of was arrested on
December 11 2008
one made of employees remark to another
one
can't say I'm surprised can you and the
other guy said
now now this is referred to as a
deferred prosecution agreement with the
US attorney what
what exactly does that mean is is still
potential for prosecution
now if the bank continued amid a
basically agrees to behave itself it's
like kind of like Witcher
you might remember is terrible secret
probation their toll they have to behave
there under the government's non for two
years
they have to report to the US Attorney's
Office to prosecutors
to federal regulators to banking
officials as well as the FBI
and they have to alert the government as
soon as there where anybody is
misbehaving and not complying with
banking regulations
than they are on notice to notify the
government ASAP otherwise they will be
prosecuted
so its deferred for two years I'm told
they agree they are
of probation basically so explain to us
something about
the money involved here how much in
where is it going to much of it is
much are all that going to victims yes
basically a
Manhattan US Attorney Preet Bharara said
today that on
with the addition of the 1.7 billion
that they're getting
from extracted from JP Morgan today on
top
of hundreds of millions of dollars it
can't Guyana billions in four billion
dollars are
basically collected through another made
of
II case forfeiture case there's going to
be four billion dollars that are gonna
be basically
I've gotten into the pockets all the
maid of victims
so summer this is going to the little
confusing there's a
1.7 billion going through the they are
on the
that the criminal side and then more a
Gather separately paying
102 million dollars to settle private
claims
yeah basically all the money from this
case is basically the government's
agreement with the bank so this is one
point seven billion that's going and to
be dispersed to
made of account made of victims then
there's $350 million that's going to be
dispersed
are in a separate payment that the bank
is making to the officer
are currency in controller and and 543
million
areas are being collected by I the
I the II trustee that's overseeing the
bankruptcy at me off
NAS and the other part of this you say
is that the bank agrees to some kind of
monitoring your
something various steps to make sure it
doesn't happen again
yes it also in addition to ask certain
knowledge responsibility which went on
for pages
have years in years and years a systemic
failures
to pay attention to these basic red
flags that
made of wasn't totally kosher so how
unusual is all this out big a deal did
the
US Attorney see it on it is very rare
and it is pretty significant it's the
second largest
forfeiture that the government has ever
been able to extract the Department of
Justice ever been able to get from
banking institution on only the larger
one was on real involved HSBC
so it's significant it's quite a big Dan
it's cold outside in New York and it was
kinda cold day for
on JP Morgan today alright Patricia
Hurtado
Bloomberg thanks so much
even as prosecutors announced the JP
Morgan settlement a separate trial got
underway today
over allegations that insider trading by
the former manager of the hedge fund
run by billionaire Steven a call when
insider trading has been a major focus
for the US Attorney's Office
for seven years and Cohen's hedge fund
SAAC
has become a major target of several
cases that's the subject of tonight's
frontline
to catch a traitor here's an excerpt
about the pursuit of Cohen
including exclusive footage video
deposition he gave
in a private civil suit over these
matters
this is a copy of the SEC's Kotov ethics
and conduct
obtained by frontline
in the industry it's called a compliance
manual and
it spells out the rules prohibiting
insider trading
in his 2011 deposition
colon was asked by the plaintiffs
attorney if he was familiar with SEC's
compliance manual
now the SACE compliance manual
time provided that if you are in
possession of material non-public
information you could not trade period
radio
while the weather looks like object I'm
not sure I don't know what it says
go catch you don't know at the time you
didn't know what missus is compliance
manual said insider trading
in on when it comes to trading I rely
account some
you know you're talking about somebody
has been in the industry for thirty
years
and for him to be that oblivious I love
these very sensual things that his
business
in that deposition was shocking I
remember what is
thats case you don't know today sitting
here Saturday from 10 points manual so i
i
I've read it but I don't know if you're
asking what it says today I remember
what it meant was he really didn't care
to have and understanding love what the
rules were
or even what was in his compliance
manual which has told me
he didn't take those things very
seriously and there was trading
in for faxing the depositions was part
of a lawsuit filed against SEC and other
hedge funds by a company called
Fairfax Financial Fairfax over
allegations of price manipulation
and we want short Fairfax Fairfax had
been targeted for what class could call
a bear rate which is when short sellers
want to market place and try and drive
to stock price down artificially
by putting out negative information
about the company well really comes down
to where they heard that
if they heard a rumor I think it's only
appropriate if Michael boy
ask call on whether he thought it was
acceptable for his traders too short a
stock
if they have advanced knowledge of
negative press stories about the company
if they sent you an email that said the
reporter told me is coming out with a
negative story
is that your testimony to be okay for
them too short
if the story was not coming out in a
relatively short period of time
I would say a there was a and the union
that
I think I might be okay Fairfax's suit
was dismissed
but the Securities and Exchange
Commission took an interest in cones
answers under oath
been subpoenaed his deposition
deposition by Steve Cohen may come back
to haunt him
as he tries to protect his mcg Capital
from me federal
insider-trading lawsuit in July of 2013
the SEC brought a civil case against
going
alleging he failed to supervise his
traders the charge he is white
they basically said look this was an
operation where there was a complete
failure of compliance and Colin who is
his name on the door in on two hundred
percent in the firm
fail to properly supervise these guys
that's a month
the Justice Department filed a criminal
indictment against
SEC in calling it a magnet for market
cheaters
in the government decided that they
found insider trading so pervasive
that they wanted to put their foot down
and say okay this is effectively a
criminal enterprise
and we're going to declare that and
charge the firm criminally
in Stephen Collins lawyers have argued
that he has never been involved in
insider trading
colin has repeatedly declined
frontline's request for an interview
tonight addition a front line to catch a
traitor
airs on most PBS stations later this
evening US Senate took action to extend
emergency unemployment insurance today
but as news our congressional
correspondent Kwami Homan report
many challenges still remain before
benefits are restored
on this vote the yeas are sixty the
names are 37
the drive to restore benefits to the
long-term unemployed
cleared its first hurdle this morning as
the senate voted to proceed with debate
Democratic Majority Leader Harry Reid
argued millions of people need the help
and so does the economy American Jews
are on employee benefits to buy food and
fuel and gas station to pay the landlord
would approach to child a cope that's
why every dollar we spend unemployment
benefits I repeat
the economy grows by dollar-and-a-half
never six Republicans
sided with the Democrats in voting to
limit debate on the bill
for it provides up to 47 weeks out
federal unemployment benefits
after state offerings are exhausted the
payments had averaged three hundred
dollars a week
when the program expire December 28 this
bill would restore benefits to 1.3
million Americans for three months
while a longer-term deal is worked on
Republican Minority Leader Mitch
McConnell said he still wants to see
those
6.4 billion dollar cost officer
one way he suggested is to eliminate new
health care subsidies for the poor
by delaying the requirement they get
coverage not like to propose that
will be allowed about %uh be allowed to
offer an amendment to pay for these
benefits
by lifting the burden Obamacare's
individual mandate for one year
and take care our veterans who were
harmed by the recently agreed to budget
deal
read was quick to knock down mcconnell's
proposal
while leaving the door open to spending
cuts elsewhere
he wants to pay for them by lacking
Obamacare
that's a non-starter so
if they come with something that's
serious
I'll talk to them right now everyone
should understand
the low-hanging fruit is gone unemployed
all over that as President Obama met
with people who've lost their job loss
benefits
we welcome Senate vote but said it's
just the first step
all they've agreed to so far as that
were actually gonna be able to
have a vote on man actually passed so we
gotta
get this across the finish line without
obstruction or delay
and we need the House of Representatives
to be able to vote for it as well
and its thats that may not be easy
in a statement Republican House Speaker
John Boehner
warned even if it passes the Senate bill
has little chance of reaching the house
floor
he said another extension of temporary
emergency unemployment benefits
should not only be paid for but include
something to help put people back to
work
to date the president has offered no
such point number last Senate Democrats
pushed forward for a second
key procedural vote sometime this week
the high rate of unemployment is one of
many challenges that the new chair the
Federal Reserve will face
when she takes over next month Janet
Yellen the first woman to head the
Central Bank
was confirmed by the Senate last night
she's already made it clear that
joblessness is one of her main concerns
we take a closer look at how she may
change things
she tries to navigate some tricky
terrain Michael Hirsch has written about
the yelling
agenda for national journal and Jillian
te
rights on these matters for the
financial times and welcome to you both
so Michael her she offers a is we just
said Janet Yellen is made it clear she
worries a lot about
unemployment what more do you expect we
expect her to do as chairman at the fed
about that
well I think the main thing is this has
been the grand passion for life
and her career as an economist you look
at what she's written
she comes at a very activist traditional
keynesian tradition
economic thinking that is quite
distinctive I think from the previous to
fed chairman
alan greenspan embed bracket both of
whom were conservative
economists I and I think that based on
her writings and some other things she
said in her speech is going back
more than a decade we can expect to see
her focus on the
employment issue in a way that I I don't
think we've seen the Federal Reserve
Chairman do for quite a while
and she's in a position to make a
difference the important thing about
Federal Reserve
share people like us we have to use that
term now are
is they have an influence that goes way
beyond the specific mandate the Fed
monetary policy their economic thinking
is enormously influential not just in
Washington right around the world
this is the most important economic job
in the world it said to be the most
second most important he job in
Washington after the president
so I think you know her four-year term
earning during that time we're gonna see
a lot of testimony a lot of discussions
with congress that are gonna shape
perhaps a new thinking on on on
employment so gillian 10 at the same
time she's expressed alarm worry about
joblessness she's also under pressure to
wind down this stimulus program that the
Federal Reserve has been engage in bond
a asset-buying so-called quantitative
easing how much
tension is there between those two goals
well the reality is that writing tension
right now and you can see that
in terms that people sitting one table
with her on the Federal Reserve
committee
because opinions are increasingly
divided about just how quickly
the Fed should change call for not but
the key thing to understand about Janet
Yellen
Michael said is that she's not just the
first woman to hold the post which is
remarkable
but she'd won the first Keynesians to
actually hold that post
she someone who really cares a lot about
the human face in economics
and as she herself has said many times
for her
unemployment if not just that but
justice takes
is also very much by human lives so for
that reason alone we certainly can
expect to see
that to take a much softer policy line
and from her predecessors so
Julian Ted staying with you what does
that mean we could look for her to do
well I think the most important thing is
what you've not going to do
and i'd with what he's not going to do
it withdraw the stimulus that that is
put into the economy enough couple years
in a very rapid manner she someone is
really looking for a gentle exit
strategy
that ensures that although the Fed does
not
fuel the bubble anymore that we've seen
in bond prices
but at least it tries to maintain
estimates and keep the economic machine
going
and and Michael Hirsh in connection with
with all of this you wrote
recently in his picks up watching you
what you said on which you said a few
minutes ago
that she for a long time is advocated a
higher minimum wage
is she in a position to do something
about that not
specifically in other words she that you
know again vent
the Fed's mandate doesn't allow her to
shape
legislation specifically and she's going
to be a little bit wary of getting
into congress' business because there
has been some backlash
against somebody's fed policies while
the reasons that her confirmation but
was as close as it was
but I do think that she will have a lot
of the
influence in terms of the with the kinds
of things she says in her
you know biannual our semi-annual rather
congressional testimony in the kinds of
things she do
she says in speeches in the same way
that alan greenspan over his 18 years at
the Fed
and Ben Bernanke he during his two terms
really influenced economic thinking
about the response to the crisis and and
you know the period before the crisis
enjoyment at this is something I know
you've written about about how they how
important the communication skills
the Federal Reserve chair I can be how
do you see that in connection with Janet
Yellen
well Jenny and somebody who even two
years ago with pointing out that
the Fed has already engaged in such
extreme
monetary policy measures that frankly
there's not a lot more they can do in
terms actually putting money into the
economy
instead they're increasingly trying to
shape how the economy works and how we
all expect the economy to work
by talking about the future by trying to
persuade people
that they're going to take a very easy
start for a long time
now that's incredibly controversial from
people that have policy which is called
forward guidance willy is just a bunch
of the do
but certainly it means that people can
be watching what John yen says
very very carefully indeed because he's
not just describing what's happening
should offer describing how she hopes to
steer the economy going for the future
is that something you expect her to do
what do you very much so I think the
most distinctive thing about Joe yellow
the fact which is the first woman to
lead the fed
is the Brett Favre economic thinking you
know Bernanke he's
focus is a scholar was on the Great
Depression alan greenspan was very
famously
financial a communist she is someone who
has studied the whole economy and again
in a very keynesian way she comes out of
this Act the school at Yale
she studied under James Tobin who was
renowned for his belief in government to
mention
so I think you're going to see that
reflected in every policy decision she
makes
is Julian says you know first things
first she's going to have to decide on
on on
unwanted sir tabor back we are fed
intervention she's gonna be inclined to
do
that less than 10 more and and I would
you say I think you've also what you
expected to be tougher in terms our
regular
regulating Wall Street yeah that's
another already she's gotten into turf
battles with Dan true love the fed
governor
there who is who Bernanke use or to left
it to do this
she she's at her as her gender something
that she wants to take on personally
as fed chairman so I think you're going
to see her taking a much more prominent
role
perhaps even getting into a fight or two
with the Treasury Department how do you
see that Jillian and now I do want to
ask about that the fact that she is the
first woman and how that can affect
if in any way what she does well before
I get on women issue
i'd gonna point one thing out which is
it she have got more experience
the one bit of good chief not got is the
right market experience
and her focus is rather different from
approved SS
she's actually not that focus on the way
the market behaved
she cared for more about the real
economy the human face
the economy and that could bring quite a
different tone to the kinda policy
debate
from what we've seen before does not
have any time with the back to the woman
well it's very hard to say I think
however she does take a much more
holistic view
how economic growth is at work and
perhaps one the most
into thinking the ball is it by being
the first woman to hold this position
suddenly an entire generation of young
female economist
can look up and think Wow made of
possible
and that helped we ship expectations in
many ways it helps to be like caught the
whole new
faith a new stamp on what economic for
the back out
and actually may help to encourage more
women into the field as well going
forward
why have there been so few women do you
think well
happy I'm asking michael this but i
wanna get job but
of combat I just how I play because if
you notice can make a difference I oh
absolutely
I also would note I don't think it's
just a coincidence that going back to
brooklyn born who is the head of the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
late 1990s
try to take on the issue
over-the-counter derivatives way before
the crisis happen
and was slapped down by the men in
charge
we've seen women Sheila Bair the FDIC
come along and really take on wall
street in a way that frankly
not that many men have Gary Gensler does
is one of the few exceptions so
it's interesting to see her at the tail
end of this in she represents also
what's worse on described me as someone
who is truly not captured by Wall Street
you know she is not not working there in
some ways as a strength
and and and and that way like proxy war
like some of these other women who have
not been for the wall street mindset
you know she could stand back and look
at it the in a very different way than
we've seen by some of those
inside the power structure in washington
who have previously worked for Wells so
chilling in just a few seconds what do
you look for
well i'm looking for. heard but I think
about a new face about nomic
and the great study by found the
universe to show that when you have a
female
economic professor in the Department you
get a lot well women doing PhD in
economics
to the very factually that could
certainly help to change because the
economics the next generation
those women can go on to become
policymakers
well lessee at the moment that he can
defend the world central bank governors
are women
so that a lot of ground to catch up but
certainly the very interesting
appointment
gillian tat Michael Hirsh we thank you
both
thank you
in
terrorist groups are secretive by nature
using violent attacks to make public
statements
tonight we get a rare look inside a
training camp for
also bob that is the Al qaeda-linked
organization based in Somalia
it comes from Jamal Asman independent
television news
you unprovoked go you
gotten a secret location
the in the somali Bush a meatball sub up
one of the most FEA al Qaeda affiliated
organizations up
this is the jihadist group behind the
attack at the Westgate shopping mall in
Kenya
that left 67 people that
this is the faith they want the world to
see
this is doubts about class of 2013 well
khuram
300 newly trained fighters have
completed a six-month course
the same military training as the
Westgate a Packers
today they are rewarded with a visit
from us about
spokesman chef salad added these the
public place of the group
and the only one willing to show his
face on camera
know how I a goodly yes yeah to free
ourselves
we have to follow our religion and that
means preparing for jihad
the hell you know that the Nina I
heeyy our own either but I A
in
them some western analysts
believe else above is in decline but the
group A
the Westgate Park proves how strong they
remain
in that's why else about viewed the
Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi Kenya
as a PR victory these
terrifying images from the attack show
us about fighters
casually walking through the mall as
they shoot civilians
the most optimistic heading in the they
were innocent shoppers going about their
daily life
why target civilians rather than the
military Hill
Kenya attacked us we have said many
times stay away from us
love them but the bar land our people
stop biting us
we warned them again and again sadly how
are you but they ignored us
leading to look at what is the atomic we
knew we had to spill blood to send a
message
their women are better than ours their
sons are better than ours
their children aren't better than ours
when they kill our people
we kill there's false above subtypes
been used to inspire new soldiers
mother medium-high the look at what the
canyons are facing today
boys who were like you at the same
training as you Albert broke up the
local
not good enough they sacrificed their
lives for God and brought huge victory
for Muslims
got a review moon for a while in
group highly organized
these latest additions will soon decide
which
unit within else about could join some
show of the gymnastic skills to impress
chef salad at a lol in
well in well the recruits
Mike remain regular fighters become bomb
makers
awake for them near about lead
intelligence network up
but the most popular unit it's the
suicide brigade and believe it or not
there is a long waiting list only the
best
recruits will be accepted them
look out that Allah not when we fight
and are martyred
we hope to be with God in paradise a lot
better than two dozen earlier
latter-day we're hoping for a beautiful
women where the infidel so before
how to delay a nothing elsa bob has been
designated as a terrorist organization
by several Western nations
after losing control of all major cities
the Islamists with thought to have been
defeated
but they still control large parts of
the country
and see themselves as an alternative
government
this is
Liberty key strategic crossing point
on the Savannah River its announcer Bob
stronghold
it also happens to be the tile where one
of the Westgate
attackers came from
the number and identities up clockers
still remains
a mystery canyons claimed they were on
leave for
but locals here suggests there were more
and some I've been believed to have
returned to Somalia
was opening the are you going to release
the identities of the attackers
and I saw this on we will do that when
we choose to the men and women who did
not
it happened at the heart of their
country in the attack lasted days
invalid and they still don't know if our
men escaped or not
than in how many were there regularly
that shows how weak they are
Leutze but got so are you enjoying their
we are very happy to see their weakness
unlike other parts of southern and
central Somalia
there is peace here but its and doubts
about
strict Sharia law all the women do go to
school
and allowed to run their own businesses
the locals my not agree with us above
military campaign but they told me they
appreciate them for bringing
law-and-order I ask local Mohammed but
the
what like this like now under the self
appointed Sabah brought at the end of
the month
it's very good day and night it's a safe
place
we're not afraid you don't hear gunshots
I followed the his that doubts about
police on their beat
none of them would let me fill in their
faces the first stop
lost this restaurant telling the female
Allah to remove the rubbish from outside
then
they make their way to the local
hospital where they checked the pharmacy
for out-of-date medicine well
as a medicine man checked yes it's been
checked can past
and also the cleanliness of the
facilities
they seem satisfied I will finally stop
is a minute supermarket where they
checked product expiry dates
but us
so on us they hear the call to prayer
everything stocks
people head to the mosque for midday
prayer
whether they like it or not up
passing vehicles %uh pulled over healed
spare time Arctic Arctic doubts about
police
make sure everyone goes to the most here
stand-up you can come back to work later
in
23rd what are you doing
I'm on my way then again stand up let's
go
this picture is reluctant but no
is not an option
the mosque quickly fills
up with some having to pray outside in
the heat well
it's a good opportunity for also bob
spokesman
a valid data this time in civilian
clothes
to drum up more support and the little
girl
it's your duty to deal with the infidels
in the long run out over but I think
it's you who should defend Islam
usual victory is close God willing
dollar held in the infidels have little
time left
there in their eleventh hour the
in
up
it's an on this message from a group
that says
it's been revived and strengthened by
the Kenya
attack they say they will strike
a game the question is where and where
and now yeah
finally tonight we turn our attention to
hunger
their 870 million undernourished people
around the world
most to them in developing countries
that is according to the United Nations
and at least 20 percent of household
face extreme food shortages
Jeff sat down recently with the woman in
charge of combatting
this chronic problem the World Food
Program is the UN's frontline agency for
fighting global hunger and right now it
has its hands especially full
with four major food emergencies at once
in Syria with millions displaced in
refugee camps
in the central african republic another
conflict area
where the UN has warned of potential
famine in neighboring South Sudan
in the news recently with an outbreak a
factional and tribal violence
and the Philippines still reeling from
typhoon high on
the World Food Program is based in Rome
its executive directors or three and
cousin
an American with many years of
experience in food issues in the
nonprofit corporate and government
sectors and she joins us now in love
with you
thank you so much first the sheer number
of emergency situations how unusual
and and what kind of challenges is it to
deal with them all at once
well meals to say it is highly unusual
when we created this category have level
3 emergencies which the UN
and the nonprofit community work
together globally to ensure that we meet
the need to bells
who are impacted by the most serious
emergencies we also
what we do for yet three of them and now
we have four
it's notable that three of the four are
her conflict areas civil war a lot of
violence
yes what kind of challenges does that
pose in particular
all-news a sensible in conflict there is
a challenge is that you have
war and you have the inability to access
those
who are in what we call besieged areas
or areas where fighting is ongoing
because it's very difficult for
humanitarian axles it
access those areas to assist the victims
are
up the complex so give so take an
example love the
Central African Republic one that
doesn't get that much attention
what are you doing what he able to do
what are you not able to do in the
central african republic
we are we fed over 300,000 people
in the in Bangi itself as well as in
both ago I in the areas and the rural
areas in Central African Republic but
the challenge is there a lot more people
or need assistance that we can't get
access to
and a good example of that is that
they're hundred thousand people
in and around the airport itself in
Bengal
when we began a feeding program in that
area
are mention workers were tapped and so
we had to stop the feeling bold
program yes food is there but you just
can't get it you can get it to people
because the ongoing violence in the area
though you know we would talk about
these crises but in the meantime there's
so much more I now
and I was just reading today about the
continuing problem
you dealing with in Kenyan refugee camps
and I saw what you wrote
the world's gaze has turned elsewhere
now this must happen
constantly for you I it does
and it's tragic because need you feel as
if you prioritize 100 child over another
you do if you feel that person I feel
that personally because in Kenya and the
DOB where you have Somali refugees is
still a 500,000 people in the Dadaab
refugee camps
and we had to cut rations their first 10
percent in December in another 10
percent in January that means that
their children they're they're not going
to get the nutritious food that they
need
you've been at this in many different
ways for a long time
wind is the world pay attention in and
when does it not
and I and when do you get frustrated who
knocks
unfortunately the world pays attention
when
the media shines a light on those in
need
which is why it's so important that we
maintain the global public will that is
necessary
to meet the needs I love those we serve
we require investments WP is a hundred
percent voluntarily
funded and we depend upon the generosity
of governments from around the world
like the United States
where we received significant support
for for work but we recognize that
there's only so many dollars to go
around
and what it forces us to do is when I
get frustrated
is when I see a situation where we know
we can make a difference
but we don't have the resources to
support those in need and and and that
happens
to a too often a setting aside the
immediate crisis that we're talking
about
if you can for a moment when you think
about the longer-term issues of food
security around the world because I know
is another area for you
is just how people feed themselves not
as the world feed itself
crises aside what do you think what what
do we need to know what what what is not
happening that you'd like to see happen
well the solutions are
are available to us we were recognized
that the majority of people who are food
insecure hungry in the world
live in rural areas and most of them are
small holder subsistence farmers
by increasing the development of the
agricultural chain and cultural
marketing chain in countries where we
serve
we can provide the economic support
necessary to those small holder so that
they can
feed their families in a sustainable and
durable manner
so we know what what's required the
challenges
it's not a one-year solution it's going
to require multi-year
implementation all the work that is
necessary to some
support the smallholder farmers so that
they can ultimately
feed themselves and feed their children
and their I
our support is no lo longer necessary
and we know
it works because time is a great example
fifty years ago when the BFP was started
China was our largest country program
we worked to support small holder
farmers in China
and began to make a difference there and
we know what I missed today alright
her throne cousin is executive director
the world food program thanks so much
thank you fred
again the major developments at the day
the record-breaking
deep freeze persisted and spread leaving
much of the country colder than parts
and and Arctica
JP Morgan Chase agreed to pay more than
two and a half billion dollars
to settle criminal charges that it
turned a blind eye to Bernie Madoff's
Ponzi scheme
and a bill to restore benefits to the
long-term unemployed
passed its first procedural test in the
senate
on the news hour online right now the
polar vortex may be on its way out but
you should still stock your house
with winter essentials first up good
books we ask Kate DiCamillo the new
national ambassador
for young people's literature to
recommend her favorite titles
for kids stuck inside you can find those
plus an expanded list from the library
of congress
on our rundown all that more is on our
website
newshour dot PBS dot or and that's the
news hour for tonight on Wednesday
a look back at the war on poverty fifty
years after President Lyndon Johnson
called on Americans to take up the fight
i'm judy woodruff will see you online
again here tomorrow evening
for all of us here at the PBS Newshour
thank you and goodnight